docs/ids_and_codes/spec_clusters.md, before:

# List of currently defined spec clusters
This file was **AUTOMATICALLY** generated by `python scripts/generate_spec_xml.py`. DO NOT EDIT BY HAND!

| ID (Decimal) | ID (hex) | Name                                                     |
|--------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
|3             |0x0003    |Identify                                                  |
|4             |0x0004    |Groups                                                    |
|6             |0x0006    |On/Off                                                    |
|8             |0x0008    |Level Control                                             |
|29            |0x001D    |Descriptor                                                |
|30            |0x001E    |Binding                                                   |
|31            |0x001F    |AccessControl                                             |
|37            |0x0025    |Actions                                                   |
|40            |0x0028    |Basic Information                                         |
|41            |0x0029    |OTA Software Update Provider                              |
|42            |0x002A    |OTA Software Update Requestor                             |
|43            |0x002B    |Localization Configuration                                |
|44            |0x002C    |Time Format Localization                                  |
|45            |0x002D    |Unit Localization                                         |
|46            |0x002E    |Power Source Configuration                                |
|47            |0x002F    |Power Source                                              |
|48            |0x0030    |General Commissioning                                     |
|49            |0x0031    |Network Commissioning                                     |
|50            |0x0032    |Diagnostic Logs                                           |
|51            |0x0033    |General Diagnostics                                       |
|52            |0x0034    |Software Diagnostics                                      |
|53            |0x0035    |Thread Network Diagnostics                                |
|54            |0x0036    |Wi-Fi Network Diagnostics                                 |
|55            |0x0037    |Ethernet Network Diagnostics                              |
|56            |0x0038    |Time Synchronization                                      |
|57            |0x0039    |Bridged Device Basic Information                          |
|59            |0x003B    |Switch                                                    |
|60            |0x003C    |Administrator Commissioning                               |
|62            |0x003E    |Operational Credentials                                   |
|63            |0x003F    |GroupKeyManagement                                        |
|64            |0x0040    |Fixed Label                                               |
|65            |0x0041    |User Label                                                |
|66            |0x0042    |ProxyConfiguration                                        |
|67            |0x0043    |ProxyDiscovery                                            |
|68            |0x0044    |ValidProxies                                              |
|69            |0x0045    |Boolean State                                             |
|70            |0x0046    |ICDManagement                                             |
|72            |0x0048    |Oven Cavity Operational State                             |
|73            |0x0049    |Oven Mode                                                 |
|74            |0x004A    |Laundry Dryer Controls                                    |
|80            |0x0050    |Mode Select                                               |
|81            |0x0051    |Laundry Washer Mode                                       |
|82            |0x0052    |Refrigerator And Temperature Controlled Cabinet Mode      |
|83            |0x0053    |Laundry Washer Controls                                   |
|84            |0x0054    |RVC Run Mode                                              |
|85            |0x0055    |RVC Clean Mode                                            |
|86            |0x0056    |Temperature Control                                       |
|87            |0x0057    |Refrigerator Alarm                                        |
|89            |0x0059    |Dishwasher Mode                                           |
|91            |0x005B    |Air Quality                                               |
|92            |0x005C    |Smoke CO Alarm                                            |
|93            |0x005D    |Dishwasher Alarm                                          |
|94            |0x005E    |Microwave Oven Mode                                       |
|95            |0x005F    |Microwave Oven Control                                    |
|96            |0x0060    |Operational State                                         |
|97            |0x0061    |RVC Operational State                                     |
|98            |0x0062    |Scenes Management                                         |
|113           |0x0071    |HEPA Filter Monitoring                                    |
|114           |0x0072    |Activated Carbon Filter Monitoring                        |
|121           |0x0079    |Water Tank Level Monitoring                               |
|128           |0x0080    |Boolean State Configuration                               |
|129           |0x0081    |Valve Configuration and Control                           |
|144           |0x0090    |Electrical Power Measurement                              |
|145           |0x0091    |Electrical Energy Measurement                             |
|148           |0x0094    |Water Heater Management                                   |
|149           |0x0095    |Energy Price                                              |
|150           |0x0096    |Demand Response Load Control                              |
|151           |0x0097    |Messages                                                  |
|152           |0x0098    |Device Energy Management                                  |
|153           |0x0099    |Energy EVSE                                               |
|154           |0x009A    |Energy Calendar                                           |
|155           |0x009B    |Energy Preference                                         |
|156           |0x009C    |Power Topology                                            |
|157           |0x009D    |Energy EVSE Mode                                          |
|158           |0x009E    |Water Heater Mode                                         |
|159           |0x009F    |Device Energy Management Mode                             |
|257           |0x0101    |Door Lock                                                 |
|258           |0x0102    |Window Covering                                           |
|336           |0x0150    |Service Area                                              |
|512           |0x0200    |Pump Configuration and Control                            |
|513           |0x0201    |Thermostat                                                |
|514           |0x0202    |Fan Control                                               |
|516           |0x0204    |Thermostat User Interface Configuration                   |
|517           |0x0205    |Humidistat                                                |
|768           |0x0300    |Color Control                                             |
|769           |0x0301    |Ballast Configuration                                     |
|1024          |0x0400    |Illuminance Measurement                                   |
|1026          |0x0402    |Temperature Measurement                                   |
|1027          |0x0403    |Pressure Measurement                                      |
|1028          |0x0404    |Flow Measurement                                          |
|1029          |0x0405    |Relative Humidity Measurement                             |
|1030          |0x0406    |Occupancy Sensing                                         |
|1036          |0x040C    |Carbon Monoxide Concentration Measurement                 |
|1037          |0x040D    |Carbon Dioxide Concentration Measurement                  |
|1043          |0x0413    |Nitrogen Dioxide Concentration Measurement                |
|1045          |0x0415    |Ozone Concentration Measurement                           |
|1066          |0x042A    |PM2.5 Concentration Measurement                           |
|1067          |0x042B    |Formaldehyde Concentration Measurement                    |
|1068          |0x042C    |PM1 Concentration Measurement                             |
|1069          |0x042D    |PM10 Concentration Measurement                            |
|1070          |0x042E    |Total Volatile Organic Compounds Concentration Measurement|
|1071          |0x042F    |Radon Concentration Measurement                           |
|1104          |0x0450    |Network Identity Management                               |
|1105          |0x0451    |Wi-Fi Network Management                                  |
|1106          |0x0452    |Thread Border Router Management                           |
|1107          |0x0453    |Thread Network Directory                                  |
|1283          |0x0503    |Wake on LAN                                               |
|1284          |0x0504    |Channel                                                   |
|1285          |0x0505    |Target Navigator                                          |
|1286          |0x0506    |Media Playback                                            |
|1287          |0x0507    |Media Input                                               |
|1288          |0x0508    |Low Power                                                 |
|1289          |0x0509    |Keypad Input                                              |
|1290          |0x050A    |Content Launcher                                          |
|1291          |0x050B    |Audio Output                                              |
|1292          |0x050C    |Application Launcher                                      |
|1293          |0x050D    |Application Basic                                         |
|1294          |0x050E    |Account Login                                             |
|1295          |0x050F    |Content Control                                           |
|1296          |0x0510    |Content App Observer                                      |
|1872          |0x0750    |Ecosystem Information                                     |
|1873          |0x0751    |Commissioner Control                                      |
|1874          |0x0752    |Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster                            |
|1875          |0x0753    |Joint Fabric PKI                                          |
|2822          |0x0B06    |Meter Identification                                      |

Commit message:

Update spec_clusters.md (#36850)
Fix script reference

docs/ids_and_codes/spec_clusters.md, after:

# List of currently defined spec clusters
This file was **AUTOMATICALLY** generated. Refer to this page: [data_model](/data_model/README.md). DO NOT EDIT BY HAND!

| ID (Decimal) | ID (hex) | Name                                                     |
|--------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
|3             |0x0003    |Identify                                                  |
|4             |0x0004    |Groups                                                    |
|6             |0x0006    |On/Off                                                    |
|8             |0x0008    |Level Control                                             |
|29            |0x001D    |Descriptor                                                |
|30            |0x001E    |Binding                                                   |
|31            |0x001F    |AccessControl                                             |
|37            |0x0025    |Actions                                                   |
|40            |0x0028    |Basic Information                                         |
|41            |0x0029    |OTA Software Update Provider                              |
|42            |0x002A    |OTA Software Update Requestor                             |
|43            |0x002B    |Localization Configuration                                |
|44            |0x002C    |Time Format Localization                                  |
|45            |0x002D    |Unit Localization                                         |
|46            |0x002E    |Power Source Configuration                                |
|47            |0x002F    |Power Source                                              |
|48            |0x0030    |General Commissioning                                     |
|49            |0x0031    |Network Commissioning                                     |
|50            |0x0032    |Diagnostic Logs                                           |
|51            |0x0033    |General Diagnostics                                       |
|52            |0x0034    |Software Diagnostics                                      |
|53            |0x0035    |Thread Network Diagnostics                                |
|54            |0x0036    |Wi-Fi Network Diagnostics                                 |
|55            |0x0037    |Ethernet Network Diagnostics                              |
|56            |0x0038    |Time Synchronization                                      |
|57            |0x0039    |Bridged Device Basic Information                          |
|59            |0x003B    |Switch                                                    |
|60            |0x003C    |Administrator Commissioning                               |
|62            |0x003E    |Operational Credentials                                   |
|63            |0x003F    |GroupKeyManagement                                        |
|64            |0x0040    |Fixed Label                                               |
|65            |0x0041    |User Label                                                |
|66            |0x0042    |ProxyConfiguration                                        |
|67            |0x0043    |ProxyDiscovery                                            |
|68            |0x0044    |ValidProxies                                              |
|69            |0x0045    |Boolean State                                             |
|70            |0x0046    |ICDManagement                                             |
|72            |0x0048    |Oven Cavity Operational State                             |
|73            |0x0049    |Oven Mode                                                 |
|74            |0x004A    |Laundry Dryer Controls                                    |
|80            |0x0050    |Mode Select                                               |
|81            |0x0051    |Laundry Washer Mode                                       |
|82            |0x0052    |Refrigerator And Temperature Controlled Cabinet Mode      |
|83            |0x0053    |Laundry Washer Controls                                   |
|84            |0x0054    |RVC Run Mode                                              |
|85            |0x0055    |RVC Clean Mode                                            |
|86            |0x0056    |Temperature Control                                       |
|87            |0x0057    |Refrigerator Alarm                                        |
|89            |0x0059    |Dishwasher Mode                                           |
|91            |0x005B    |Air Quality                                               |
|92            |0x005C    |Smoke CO Alarm                                            |
|93            |0x005D    |Dishwasher Alarm                                          |
|94            |0x005E    |Microwave Oven Mode                                       |
|95            |0x005F    |Microwave Oven Control                                    |
|96            |0x0060    |Operational State                                         |
|97            |0x0061    |RVC Operational State                                     |
|98            |0x0062    |Scenes Management                                         |
|113           |0x0071    |HEPA Filter Monitoring                                    |
|114           |0x0072    |Activated Carbon Filter Monitoring                        |
|121           |0x0079    |Water Tank Level Monitoring                               |
|128           |0x0080    |Boolean State Configuration                               |
|129           |0x0081    |Valve Configuration and Control                           |
|144           |0x0090    |Electrical Power Measurement                              |
|145           |0x0091    |Electrical Energy Measurement                             |
|148           |0x0094    |Water Heater Management                                   |
|149           |0x0095    |Energy Price                                              |
|150           |0x0096    |Demand Response Load Control                              |
|151           |0x0097    |Messages                                                  |
|152           |0x0098    |Device Energy Management                                  |
|153           |0x0099    |Energy EVSE                                               |
|154           |0x009A    |Energy Calendar                                           |
|155           |0x009B    |Energy Preference                                         |
|156           |0x009C    |Power Topology                                            |
|157           |0x009D    |Energy EVSE Mode                                          |
|158           |0x009E    |Water Heater Mode                                         |
|159           |0x009F    |Device Energy Management Mode                             |
|257           |0x0101    |Door Lock                                                 |
|258           |0x0102    |Window Covering                                           |
|336           |0x0150    |Service Area                                              |
|512           |0x0200    |Pump Configuration and Control                            |
|513           |0x0201    |Thermostat                                                |
|514           |0x0202    |Fan Control                                               |
|516           |0x0204    |Thermostat User Interface Configuration                   |
|517           |0x0205    |Humidistat                                                |
|768           |0x0300    |Color Control                                             |
|769           |0x0301    |Ballast Configuration                                     |
|1024          |0x0400    |Illuminance Measurement                                   |
|1026          |0x0402    |Temperature Measurement                                   |
|1027          |0x0403    |Pressure Measurement                                      |
|1028          |0x0404    |Flow Measurement                                          |
|1029          |0x0405    |Relative Humidity Measurement                             |
|1030          |0x0406    |Occupancy Sensing                                         |
|1036          |0x040C    |Carbon Monoxide Concentration Measurement                 |
|1037          |0x040D    |Carbon Dioxide Concentration Measurement                  |
|1043          |0x0413    |Nitrogen Dioxide Concentration Measurement                |
|1045          |0x0415    |Ozone Concentration Measurement                           |
|1066          |0x042A    |PM2.5 Concentration Measurement                           |
|1067          |0x042B    |Formaldehyde Concentration Measurement                    |
|1068          |0x042C    |PM1 Concentration Measurement                             |
|1069          |0x042D    |PM10 Concentration Measurement                            |
|1070          |0x042E    |Total Volatile Organic Compounds Concentration Measurement|
|1071          |0x042F    |Radon Concentration Measurement                           |
|1104          |0x0450    |Network Identity Management                               |
|1105          |0x0451    |Wi-Fi Network Management                                  |
|1106          |0x0452    |Thread Border Router Management                           |
|1107          |0x0453    |Thread Network Directory                                  |
|1283          |0x0503    |Wake on LAN                                               |
|1284          |0x0504    |Channel                                                   |
|1285          |0x0505    |Target Navigator                                          |
|1286          |0x0506    |Media Playback                                            |
|1287          |0x0507    |Media Input                                               |
|1288          |0x0508    |Low Power                                                 |
|1289          |0x0509    |Keypad Input                                              |
|1290          |0x050A    |Content Launcher                                          |
|1291          |0x050B    |Audio Output                                              |
|1292          |0x050C    |Application Launcher                                      |
|1293          |0x050D    |Application Basic                                         |
|1294          |0x050E    |Account Login                                             |
|1295          |0x050F    |Content Control                                           |
|1296          |0x0510    |Content App Observer                                      |
|1872          |0x0750    |Ecosystem Information                                     |
|1873          |0x0751    |Commissioner Control                                      |
|1874          |0x0752    |Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster                            |
|1875          |0x0753    |Joint Fabric PKI                                          |
|2822          |0x0B06    |Meter Identification                                      |
