The Matter SDK is an open source implementation of the Matter Specification
(Matter). Matter is developed by members of the Connectivity Standards Alliance
(Alliance) and promulgated by the Alliance.

LIMITED RIGHTS TO THE MATTER SDK: Your rights to the Matter SDK are described in
the LICENSE. No warranty or assurance is made with respect to additional rights
that may be required to implement the Matter SDK. Use of the Matter SDK does not
assure compliance with Matter and does not convey the right to identify any
device, software, product or service as Matter compliant, certified or similar.

CERTIFICATION REQUIRES MEMBERSHIP IN THE ALLIANCE: Certification by the Alliance
of any device, software, product or service is limited to members of the
Alliance, and requires compliance with applicable Alliance policies.

USE OF ALLIANCE TRADEMARKS AND LOGOS REQUIRES MEMBERSHIP IN THE ALLIANCE: Only
the Alliance and its members may use Alliance trademarks and logos, including,
without limitation, the Matter trademarks and logos. All Alliance trademarks and
logos must be used in accordance with the Connectivity Standards Alliance
Trademark and Logo Usage Guidelines and Terms, a copy of which can be found at
www.csa-iot.org/resources/governing-documents.

JOINING CONNECTIVITY STANDARDS ALLIANCE: For information on how to become a
member of Connectivity Standards Alliance please visit
www.csa-iot.org/become-member.

DISCLAIMER: Elements of the Matter SDK may be subject to third party
intellectual property rights, including without limitation, patent, copyright or
trademark rights (such third party may or may not be a member of the Alliance).
The Alliance is not responsible and shall not be held responsible in any manner
for identifying or failing to identify any or all such third party intellectual
property rights.

Members of the Alliance may own intellectual property rights in Matter which
rights are subject to the Allianceâ€™s Intellectual Property Rights Policy, which
can be found at www.csa-iot.org/resources/governing-documents, and not the
LICENSE.

This NOTICE must be included on all copies of the Matter SDK.
