<a name="manufacturing"></a>

## Manufacturing data

By default, the example application is configured to use generic test
certificates and provisioning data embedded with the application code. It is
possible for a final stage application to generate its own manufacturing data:

-   Generate new certificates

    _PAI_VID_ and _PAI_PID_ variables must be changed accordingly inside
    generate_cert.sh script

    _generate_cert.sh_ script needs as input parameter the path to chip-cert
    tool (compile it from ./src/tools/chip-cert). The output of the script is:
    the DAC, PAI and PAA certificates. The DAC and PAI certificates will be
    written in a special section of the internal flash, while the PAA will be
    used on the chip-tool side as trust anchor. Please note that for _real
    production manufacturing_ the "production PAA" is trusted via the DCL rather
    than thorough PAA certificate generated along with DAC and PAI. The PAI cert
    may also have a different lifecycle.

    ```
    user@ubuntu:~/Desktop/git/connectedhomeip$ ./examples/platform/nxp/k32w/k32w0/scripts/generate_cert.sh  ./src/tools/chip-cert/out/chip-cert
    ```

*   Generate new provisioning data and convert all the data to a binary:

    ```
    user@ubuntu:~/Desktop/git/connectedhomeip$  python3 ./scripts/tools/nxp/generate_nxp_chip_factory_bin.py -i 10000 -s ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSXYZ -p 14014 -d 1000 --dac_cert /home/ubuntu/manufacturing/Chip-DAC-NXP-Cert.der --dac_key /home/ubuntu/manufacturing/Chip-DAC-NXP-Key.der --pai_cert /home/ubuntu/manufacturing/Chip-PAI-NXP-Cert.der --spake2p_path ./src/tools/spake2p/out/spake2p --out out.bin
    ```

    Here is the interpretation of the parameters:

    ```
    -i             -> SPAKE2+ iteration
    -s             -> SPAKE2+ salt
    -p             -> SPAKE2+ passcode
    - d            -> discriminator
    --dac_cert     -> path to the DAC (der format) location
    --dac_key      -> path to the DAC key (der format) location
    --pai_cert     -> path to the PAI (der format) location
    --spake2p_path -> path to the spake2p tool (compile it from ./src/tools/spake2p)
    --out          -> name of the binary that will be used for storing all the generated data

    ```

*   Write out.bin to the internal flash at location 0x9D200:

    ```
    DK6Programmer.exe  -Y -V2 -s <COM_PORT> -P 1000000 -Y -p FLASH@0x9D200="out.bin"
    ```

*   Generate a new CD (certification declaration):

    Inside _gen-test-cds.sh_, the parameters _vids_, _pid0_, _device_type_id_
    must be changed accordingly. Use _Chip-Test-CD-Signing-\*_ key and
    certificate already available in
    _./credentials/test/certification-declaration/_ which acts as CSA
    Certificate. This CSA certificate is also hard-coded as Trust Anchor in the
    current chip-tool version. To use this certificate and avoid generating a
    new one, lines 69-70 must be commented in the _gen-test-cds.sh_ script (the
    ones that are generating a new CD signing authority).

    ```
    user@ubuntu:~/Desktop/git/connectedhomeip$ ./credentials/test/gen-test-cds.sh ./src/tools/chip-cert/out/chip-cert
    ```

*   Set the correct VID/PID and CD in the
    examples/\$APP_NAME/nxp/k32w/k32w0/ChipProjectConfig.h file VID and PID
    values should correspond to the ones used for DAC. CD bytes should be the
    ones obtained at the step above:

    ```
    user@ubuntu:~/manufacturing hexdump -ve '1/1 "0x%.2x, "' Chip-Test-CD-1037-A220.der
    ```

*   Use _chip_with_factory_data=1_ gn compilation argument

    This is needed in order to load the data from the special flash section.
    Build and flash the application.

*   Run chip-tool with a new PAA:

    ```
    ./chip-tool pairing ble-thread 2 hex: $hex_value 14014 1000 --paa-trust-store-path /home/ubuntu/certs/paa
    ```

    Here is the interpretation of the parameters:

    ```
    --paa-trust-store-path -> path to the generated PAA (der format)
    ```

    _paa-trust-store-path_ must contain only the PAA certificate. Avoid placing
    other certificates in the same location as this may confuse chip-tool.

    PAA certificate can be copied to the chip-tool machine using SCP for
    example.

    This is needed for testing self-generated DACs, but likely not required for
    "true production" with production PAI issued DACs.

*   Useful information/Known issues

        Implementation of manufacturing data provisioning has been validated using test certificates generated by OpenSSL 1.1.1l.

        Also, demo DAC, PAI and PAA certificates needed in case _chip_with_factory_data=1_ is used can be found in examples/platform/nxp/k32w/k32w0/scripts/demo_generated_certs.

        dut1/dut2 folders contains different DACs/Private Keys and can be used for testing topologies with 2 DUTS.

        out_dut1.bin/out2_dut2.bin contains the corresponding DACs/PAIs generated using generate_nxp_chip_factory_bin.py script. The discriminator is 14014 and the passcode is 1000.

        These demo certificates are working with the CDs installed in CHIPProjectConfig.h.

    <a name="flashdebug"></a>
